---
title: Leadership
---

## On trust

One of the hardest things about leading a team is learning to delegate a task
and trust that it'll get done with a high degree of quality. It's easy to find
yourself with a mentality of "if you want something done right, do it
yourself". The hard bit is consciously identifying that you have this
mentality, and taking steps to let go.

Perhaps it's hard to let go because as a leader, you're expected to take
responsibility if timelines aren't met, or if a system isn't
designed/implemented well. Delegation feels like putting something out of your
control, yet still being responsible for its outcomes.

A strategy I've found useful is to establish a strong writing culture. At
Carousell we often write RFCs for upcoming changes. These documents are the
perfect time to comment and align your expectations with the proposed
implementation.

When it comes to commenting on RFCs, there's a fine line between giving input
and micromanaging. No one likes being micromanaged. When giving input, you
should try to justify your input in as much detail as possible. Providing
justifications helps the author to better understand where you're coming from,
and gives them more opportunity to disagree with your suggestion. Disagreements are
fantastic in RFCs -- these are the discussions that end up shaping the RFC the
most.

## On writing

It's important to being able to write well in order to communicate your
thoughts and influence others. Team members should be pushed to further their
writing ability as well. Good writing benefits everyone in the organization; it
benefits the rest of the team reviewing the document, outside teams wanting to
learn about your feature, and future-you wanting to regain some context on an
old feature. One way of increasing overall writing ability in the organization
is to simply set a good example. By consistently publishing high quality
documents, it'll start to trickle down to the rest of the organization. Pretty
soon you'll start to notice other people adopting aspects of your document
structure.

## On responsibilities

One of the responsibilities as a tech lead is to insulate the rest of the team
from unnecessary meetings and discussions. I believe that engineering teams
should be involved in product exploration. It makes for a better product.
However involving the wider engineering team too early only serves to distract
them from their work. The tech lead should participate in early exploratory
discussions with product. The tech lead should summarize these early
discussions and present them to the team for asynchronous discussion (over
Slack, email, etc.). This way the team can contribute to early-stage product
exploration without having to sit in hour-long meetings.

