---
title: "Travel thoughts"
category: travel
toc: true
---

## Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, 2022

**You'll make mistakes.** And then you'll get over it. This is especially true
when you solo travel. You just don't have someone else to bounce ideas off of.
I had one early in my trip, before the bus ride from the airport into the city.
The bus had just arrived, and the driver wandered off for a few minutes. After
a bit discussion, myself and some other passengers decided that it's _probably_
ok to just board the bus. After a while the driver returned and started
shouting for us to alight. Fun start to the trip. Not a big deal, but that's
the point; mistakes are part of travel.

**Bring an ereader.** I omitted my ereader to make space for my climbing gear.
I could have still fitted it in, but it would have been quite overpacked. In
hindsight I should have definitely brought it. There were loads of times where
I wish I had a book to read to pass the time. There were some meals where I
wanted to read while eating, because reading a book is more enjoyable than
scrolling through online forums on my phone.

**You probably should bring a powerbank.** While I don't think it's always
necessary, it can come in handy. At one point I found myself much too low on
battery. I had an event at night I wanted to go to, but the only feasible to
travel back from the event was via Grab. I wasn't confident that I would have
enough battery at the end of the night to call a Grab, so I opted not to go to
the event.

**Consider bringing a day bag.** At minimum it'll provide a convenient way to
carry some water and a powerbank with you.

**My money management could be better.** I've forgotten how annoying dealing
with physical money can be. In Singapore I hardly ever use physical money
anymore. I used a credit card sized wallet and had to fold the bills. Super
annoying whenever I needed to take money out. I should prioritize getting a
compact bifold for travel.

**It's nice to buy conveniences sometimes.** I took the bus from the airport,
and the train when departing back to the airport. The train costs about SGD$18,
while the bus costs $5. An extra $10 is a small enough absolute value that it
doesn't really matter. We're fortunatey to have such disposable income, and
it's nice to exploit it once in a while.

**Walking around is much more tiring than I expected.** After the first day my
knees and feet were already hurting. I took it easy the second day, spending a
lazy afternoon in a museum. I should get more comfortable shoes for travel.

**One bag travel is fantastic.** I brought a 28L bag. Most of it was filled
with climbing gear; harness, shoes, rack, helmet, chalk bag. My clothes took up
less than 20% of the total capacity. I could easily travel indefinitely in a
tropical country with a 20L bag, since there would be no need for cold weather
clothes. I imagine it's a lot less stressful to simply have a small bag, rather
than lugging around massive suitcases.

**Merino wool and other technical fabrics are fantastic.** Merino wool is known
for being extremely odor resistant. I wore mine walking around in a hot day,
then during a downpour at night, and again on the last day at the airport. On
my second day I wore a regular cotton shirt I had, and it was so much less
comfortable. Until then I didn't appreciate how much work my merino shirt was
doing to wick away moisture.

**Food tourism is difficult for solo travellers.** There were times I wanted to
try more food options, but simply didn't have the appetite to do so.

**Kuala Lumpur isn't that exciting to me.** Well, apart from the climbing
anyway. I probably wouldn't visit KL again unless I can tack on a climbing
session during the trip.

**Lead climbing at your limit is really quite scary.** I onsighted a 5c, which
was fun because of how easy it was. I then proceeded to try a 6a, which turned
out to be much scarier. 6a isn't difficult for me, nor is it my limit in terms
of technical ability. However I haven't lead climbed enough recently to build
up my mental game. As a result I was taking things much more cautiously than I
needed to, and wasted loads of energy on relatively easy moves. I didn't send
the 6a, instead falling at around 80% up the route.

**I'll need to practice leading a lot more before my Krabi trip in December.**
My endurance is currently way to bad to be going to Krabi. Ideally I'd like to
be doing 6b or 6c comfortably before the trip. Technique-wise I should be able
to, but I'll need to build up both my endurance and my mental game. I'll have
to start sport climbing more regularly.

## Ipoh, Malaysia, 2020

This was a climbing trip with Rockerfellas. I have a more in-depth [trip report
on my blog](https://hbenjamin.com/post/sport-climbing-in-ipoh/).

**I can pack really light.** Several of my travel companions had large
suitcases. No idea what they brought, because I easily made do with a 28L bag.
This is including a harness, climbing shoes, chalk bag, and helmet. In fact,
after the trip I decided there were a few things I could cut from my packing
list for future trips.

**Travelling for outdoor climbing is more accessible than I thought.** To be
fair, I've never really thought much about travelling to climb, but I suppose
at the back of my mind I've always figured it'll take a considerable amount of
planning. It's actually pretty simple to look up routes in a guidebook or
online, then rock up to the crag with some friends and start climbing. I'm
excited to climb more often after this trip.

**I felt way more comfortable around others than I thought I would.** Initially
I was a bit apprehensive about the trip, because I'm not the most social
person. However during the trip I felt extremely comfortable around everyone
else. I think it might have been because we all shared a common interest. I
think part of it is that since I was around new people, I didn't feel
constrained by preconceptions they might have the same way I would if I were
around people I've known for a long time.

## Lombok, Indonesia, 2018

I went to Lombok with a few friends from work to climb Mount Rinjani.

**Get a good hiking backpack for serious hikes.** A good bag is especially
important for multi-day hikes with 8+ hours of walking per day. I carried a
Osprey Talon 22, which was excellent. We had porters, so water wasn't much of a
concern. If we were carrying our own water, I might opt for something with a
more substantial frame. Given my relatively light load (~7kg), the Talon 22 was
perfect.

**Hiking shoes are a little unnecessary.** I wouldn't go so far as to say they
were entirely useless, but I don't think they justify their weight and space
requirements. For future trips I would consider a pair of trail runners
instead, with the exception if I'm going on a particularly difficult hike.
Trail runners are much more versatile shoes for travel, assuming there's a
chance of the occasional trail hike.

**The military has prepared me more than I initially realized.** I found the
hike up Mount Rinjani to be downright _easy_. Some of my travel companions
found it a little difficult however. To me it just felt like a very casual
route march. A route march, but with ample rest, more comfortable attire, less
load, no unwieldy rifle, and no heavy helmet.

**This was the trip where I started to seriously consider solo travel.** I
enjoyed the trip immensely. However by the last day of the trip I was starting
to feel like I would really have liked to explore the area on my own. I'm
introverted, so it was likely that after a few days of constant social
interaction, I needed some time alone to recharge.
