---
title: Game reviews
toc: true
---

## A Hat in Time

Let's start with options. I always say that the quality of the main menu and
available options speaks volumes about the quality of the game itself. There
is a surprisingly detailed assortment of options available here. Hell,
motion blur is even separated into per-object motion blur and screen blur
(because who likes screen blur?). Every option is accompanied with a
description of what it does. In terms of essential options, you have all the
ones you'd expect from a decent PC game: FoV sliders, individual audio
sliders, wide array of FPS locks, and plenty of graphical options.

Performance wise, I get a consistent 120 FPS on a i5-6600K and GTX 1070 with
every option maxed (except screen blur, of course). Seems fairly optimized
for my particular build, but your mileage may vary.

Controls are tight. You never feel like you're fighting against the game.

Level design is, well, good. Not great, but good enough that you certainly
don't notice its shortcomings while playing. When you step back and think
about it though, the level design really isn't anything to write home about.
In general I found the levels to be too busy and lacking cohesion. They're
not very memorable in the sense that if you were to drop me in a random part
of a level, I'd have difficulty identifying exactly where I was.

There's a ton of little details in the world that are just delightful.
There's an adorable little roomba that roams your spaceship! But the one
thing that really stood out to me is the 4-piece band you have in your
spaceship. You can tell this band to play you some tunes, and get this: the
members of the band only start playing at their corresponding parts of the
song! If there aren't any drumbeats, the drummer doesn't drum. The trumpet
player doesn't start playing until the song has trumpets. That's an
incredible attention to detail.

Which I guess brings me to the soundtrack. It's phenomenal. At the time of
writing (with a -20% discount), the deluxe edition is only $4 extra, and is
well worth the cost. Gear with Breakfast has also put up the full soundtrack
on YouTube, so go check it out!

The platforming is solid. It's not hard as nails; there's some measure of
difficulty but not frustratingly so.

There's a lot of collectibles. Typically you get cosmetic rewards for your
efforts. The platforming is satisfying enough that I had no qualms in going
out of my way to collect 'em all.

Overall A Hat in Time is an exceedingly good game. I think it's one of those
games that are greater than the sum of its parts. While each aspect of the
game is good in and of itself; put together it's just a work of art. 

## GREYHAT - A Digital Detective Adventure

[Steam
link](https://store.steampowered.com/app/1247940/Greyhat__A_Digital_Detective_Adventure/)

An excellent game with interesting puzzles and a very compelling story.

The subtitle, "Digital detective adventure", is an apt description for the
game. The puzzles are the investigative sort, with logical solutions. Most
puzzles will involve reading emails/documents and looking at photographs for
clues. Some have little minigames and physical interactions as well. The
puzzles aren't straightforward either; you're typically required to take
down notes, and the game helpfully provides a little notepad for you. I
particularly enjoy the puzzles because often they're about some real-world
scenario, whether it's solving a murder case or preventing some disaster.
There's an overarching story as well, and each puzzle you solve is in some
way tied to it.

As for the story, I must say I was hooked within the first 15 minutes. I
honestly didn't expect such a compelling story! The story is presented in
the form of text and email conversations, and it works surprisingly well.
The "boring" nature of text conversations is enhanced by a rather
interesting input mechanism. It's a little hard to explain coherently via
text, but let's say that it introduces some interactivity to the act of
advancing dialog.

There is a demo available. Honestly I only played it halfway before I went
and purchased the game, but I think I can assume where the demo stops. I
think it'll provide a good indication of what the game will be like. Highly
recommend checking out the demo if what I've written above interests even in
the slightest.

## Levelhead

Love it. Bought it on a whim and was hooked within the first half hour.

The tutorialization is really good. Gradually introduces new concepts and
eases the player into the flow of things. The campaign (called "training"
levels in-game) is of excellent quality as well. I appreciated the heavy
tutorialization that introduced the level editor, as someone without prior
experience in the genre.

Speaking of the level editor, I found it intuitive to use. Had no issues
with designing and building a level.

Though what really stands out to me is the level discoverability. Levelhead
has a really smart system that incentives players to play newly-created
levels made by other players. Essentially new levels get put into the
"marketing department", and you earn "exposure bucks" from playing other
player-created levels. These bucks can be spent on your own levels to
increase its visibility.

The end result is a happy little feedback loop where you're incentived to
play other players' levels, and other players' are incentivized to play
yours. It's quite rewarding when the levels you so painstakingly build get
played by others.

And finally... there are so many great levels by the community! Lots of very
unique creations, which is also testament to the robust level editor.

Would absolutely recommend Levelhead to anyone even remotely interested in
platformers. 

## Persona 4: Golden

Just finished the game and I'm honestly feeling a little speechless. What a
fantastic game. I didn't expect it, but Persona 4: Golden has fast become
one of my favorite RPGs. I'm a sucker for stories featuring camaraderie
between a cast of characters, and this game delivers that so, so well. The
interactions between each character felt so genuine, I found myself sitting
there with a smile on my face for much of my playthrough.

You know that feeling when you finish a book or TV series you really loved?
I call it a book hangover, it's such a bittersweet feeling, having to say
goodbye to the world and its characters. I felt the same with the world
Persona 4 and its characters. This game is the perfect remedy for
loneliness.

I have a couple recommendations for anyone interested in the game:

1. Try the game out with Japanese audio and English subs, you might prefer
   it.  I much preferred this setup; couldn't stand the English dubs.
2. Go in as blind as you can. Stay away from forums until you've finished
   the game. 

## Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six 3: Gold Edition

I love this game. This game was one of my very first gaming experiences.
Before Neopets. Before Pokemon. Before my PS1 and Xbox. Before Warcraft 3
and Diablo and all the other good stuff. I used to play this all the time
with my dad, and as such constitutes some of my fondest childhood memories.

Anyway, let's dive right in.

This game has technical issues. The menus are locked to 800x600 (?)
resolution, though the game itself supports much higher resolutions. It did
1080p just fine for me. However, due to the different resolutions, your
resolution will fluctuate whenever you enter/leave the menus. Kind of
annoying, but no big deal. You better get used to the low resolution though,
because you'll be spending a lot of time in the planning menu. Which brings
me to my next point...

This is not your typical action FPS. It's relatively slow paced and you
spend a lot of time planning things out. There are 3 teams you can
customize. You can outfit each team member with different armor, weapons,
weapon attachments, various types of grenades, and various utility tools.
During planning you can dictate where your teams go, how they go there, what
they do when the reach there, etc.

For example, you might want green and gold team to wait for your signal
("Alpha, go!") before they clear a particular room.

- Want one team to throw a smoke and the other to throw a flashbang before
  doing storming the room? Done.
- Locked door? No problem, tell them to breach it first.
- Hostages? Throw some tear gas in. Don't worry, you can outfit your guys
  with gas masks.

There is a ton of ways to complete missions. You can take control of a team
as well, and co-ordinate with the other teams in clearing a level.

AI sometimes spotty. On occasions the AI will get stuck bumping into one
another, or they'll be looking in stupid directions while taking fire. Most
of the time though the AI is quite capable. You'll see your teams moving in
formation, covering for one another. They'll strafe into rooms. I've
actually been saved by my AI companion more times than I can count, so
they're certainly not a burden.

There is auto-aim, but you can turn it off. You can also configure how
sensitive you want the auto-aim to be.

There is a lot of trial and error. Your plans will not work on the first
try.  You'll be going through the level halfway when one of your teams
starts getting killed off. Then you'll go back to the planning stage and try
to rectify the flaws in your master plan. Maybe green team should throw a
smoke before storming this particular room. Maybe you should reposition gold
team so that they can better cover fire for green team. This is as much a
strategy game as it is an action one.

Another this is that death is permanent. You have a roster of soldiers, and
if they die during a mission, they will not be available for subsequent
missions.  This gives you an incentive to complete missions with minimum
casualties.  Soldiers can be wounded too, making them move slower and have
slower reflexes.  Wounded soldiers recover after a couple missions.

This game is fantastic, but it's not for everyone. It can't really be
compared to anything else on the market. Unfortunately the Rainbow Six
series is no longer the tactical shooter it once was. 

## Spelunky 2

A worthy sequel to the original Spelunky.

The game is more difficult than the original. The levels are larger and more
complex. There are new mobs, while some old ones have new behaviors. These
changes generally give the game a slower pace. The original Spelunky had
simpler levels, with enemies that weren't very threatening; meaning that a
sufficiently skilled player could essentially run through the game without
getting into much danger. I enjoy the slower and more methodical playstyle,
so I think this is a large improvement over the first game. Spelunky
veterans who've developed an opposing playstyle preference may feel very
differently.  New players will likely find the opening levels too difficult
for the first few hours.

Spelunky is full of secrets. [Derek Yu made a comment in an
interview](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-yZtOL7cFCY&t=1596s) (26:36) on
how gamers these days have a tendency to fixate on "beating the game". He
mentioned that he designed Spelunky to be about exploration and discovery.
Thinking to yourself - What happens if I do this, or do that, or how does
this work, or how might I access this new area, and so on.  I'm inclined to
agree with this philosophy; I think a large part of why I'm enjoying
Spelunky 2 so much is because everything is new and I'm trying to figure out
what things do or how to do certain things. So far I've managed to avoid
major spoilers and am just enjoying the personal discovery process. If you
get the game wanting to "beat it", I think Spelunky 2 (and Spelunky in
general) is not going to be for you.

This is a rather contentious game, and certainly not for everyone. I'd
highly recommend it to anyone who has played and enjoyed the original
Spelunky. I only weakly recommend it to new players; I think many people
will be put off by the permadeath and lack of permanent upgrades common in
other roguelites (e.g.  Rogue Legacy, Hades, Dead Cells, etc.).

## Stardew Valley

Stardew Valley is about more than just farming. You fish, mine, rear
animals, build relationships, marry, explore, and yes, make money. These
systems are all extremely fleshed out.

There are multiple ways to construct a profitable farm. Be a bee keeper and
sell honey. Place a ton of tappers on trees to collect their sap. Harvest
fruits and make wine. Make beer and ale instead. Rear animals and sell their
products. Or just straight up farm crops to sell.

The world feels alive and populated. The villagers have their own schedules
and you often see them going about their day. After a while you get to know
more about each character, and they're often deeper than would appear!

As you become more liked by the residents of Stardew Valley (by giving them
gifts!), you'll trigger little cutscenes with them. These cutscenes and
interactions do a really good job in making it feel like your relationship
building efforts are actually doing something. It's this sense of
progression that keeps the game from feeling like you're just raising an
arbitrary stat to get a certain ending.

Speaking of progression, Stardew Valley's pacing is particularly well done.
When you start the game for the first time, it doesn't hold your hand and
lead you through a step-by-step tutorial. You get some seeds, basic farming
instructions, and off you go. Then you're given an initial quest to meet the
villagers. That's all you really need. Each new feature or system that comes
up is organically introduced and explained. You never reach a point where
you have to wonder, "well now what do I do?".

Wholeheartedly recommend. I feel a little guilty paying just $15 for this. 

## TIS-100

This is a programming puzzle game. However, you don't need to know
programming to understand the game. It certainly helps, but this game is
less about writing code and more about the logic processes involved in
building a solution. If you have a logical mind and enjoy puzzles, this game
may be for you. If you enjoy programming, this game is most definitely for
you.

The game uses a fictional implementation of an assembly type language. You
get a manual in PDF form. Yes, you have to read a manual. It's not
complicated though, as there are only a handful of operations available to
you. There's enough to allow for interesting solutions yet limited enough to
make the game challenging. A very good balance between the two, I'd say.

Regarding the puzzle aspect, you're expected to work with nodes, each only
allowing a limited number of lines and containing two memory registers (no
addressable memory!), only one of which can be actively accessed for
read/write operations. As a result, you need to structure your program
around these limitations, perhaps by breaking it down into various
components.

The problems are varied and quite grounded in real-world applications
(sequence peak detector, histogram, etc.). The game is simplistic and
doesn't hold your hand, but the problems are organized such that there's a
clear difficulty curve as you progress. The curve should be quite manageable
for those with prior experience in programming.

There are also leaderboards so you can compare how efficient your solution
was compared to your friends, because who doesn't like improving?

Wholeheartedly recommend this to anyone who loves programming.

## Titanfall 2

One of the best single-player campaigns I've played in a while. Finished it
in around 4 hours, so it's relatively short as far as single-player
campaigns go.  However this is largely because the game has very little to
no filler, and I love it for that. Too many games try to drag out content to
hit some arbitrary industry benchmark of 10 hours or so of gameplay.
Titanfall 2 instead has no filler; it introduces a gameplay concept,
explores it, then moves on.

I tend to enjoy movement shooters. My most played game of all time is Team
Fortress 2 after all. Titanfall 2 absolutely does not disappoint in that
regard. There's an incredible amount of mobility in the game. Combined with
good gunplay and it makes for a very fast-paced and responsive game.
