---
title: A Hat in Time
---

A Hat in Time is _fun_.

Let's start with options. I always say that the quality of the main menu and
available options speaks volumes about the quality of the game itself. There is
a surprisingly detailed assortment of options available here. Hell, motion blur
is even separated into per-object motion blur and screen blur (because who
likes screen blur?). Every option is accompanied with a description of what it
does. In terms of essential options, you have all the ones you'd expect from a
decent PC game: FoV sliders, individual audio sliders, wide array of FPS locks,
and plenty of graphical options.

Performance wise, I get a consistent 120 FPS on a i5-6600K and GTX 1070 with
every option maxed (except screen blur, of course). Seems fairly optimized for
my particular build, but your mileage may vary.

Controls are tight. You never feel like you're fighting against the game.

Level design is, well, good. Not great, but good enough that you certainly
don't notice its shortcomings while playing. When you step back and think about
it though, the level design really isn't anything to write home about. In
general I found the levels to be too busy and lacking cohesion. They're not
very memorable in the sense that if you were to drop me in a random part of a
level, I'd have difficulty identifying exactly where I was.

There's a ton of little details in the world that are just delightful. There's
an adorable little roomba that roams your spaceship! But the one thing that
really stood out to me is the 4-piece band you have in your spaceship. You can
tell this band to play you some tunes, and get this: the members of the band
only start playing at their corresponding parts of the song! If there aren't
any drumbeats, the drummer doesn't drum. The trumpet player doesn't start
playing until the song has trumpets. That's an incredible attention to detail.

Which I guess brings me to the soundtrack. It's phenomenal. At the time of
writing (with a -20% discount), the deluxe edition is only $4 extra, and is
well worth the cost. Gear with Breakfast has also put up the full soundtrack on
YouTube, so go check it out!

The platforming is solid. It's not hard as nails; there's some measure of
difficulty but not frustratingly so.

There's a lot of collectibles. Typically you get cosmetic rewards for your
efforts. The platforming is satisfying enough that I had no qualms in going out
of my way to collect 'em all.

Overall A Hat in Time is an exceedingly good game. I think it's one of those
games that are greater than the sum of its parts. While each aspect of the game
is good in and of itself; put together it's just a work of art. 
