---
title: "Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six 3: Gold Edition"
---
I love this game. This game was one of my very first gaming experiences. Before
Neopets. Before Pokemon. Before my PS1 and Xbox. Before Warcraft 3 and Diablo
and all the other good stuff. I used to play this all the time with my dad, and
as such constitutes some of my fondest childhood memories.

Anyway, let's dive right in.

This game has technical issues. The menus are locked to 800x600 (?) resolution,
though the game itself supports much higher resolutions. It did 1080p just fine
for me. However, due to the different resolutions, your resolution will
fluctuate whenever you enter/leave the menus. Kind of annoying, but no big
deal. You better get used to the low resolution though, because you'll be
spending a lot of time in the planning menu. Which brings me to my next
point...

This is not your typical action FPS. It's relatively slow paced and you spend a
lot of time planning things out. There are 3 teams you can customize. You can
outfit each team member with different armor, weapons, weapon attachments,
various types of grenades, and various utility tools. During planning you can
dictate where your teams go, how they go there, what they do when the reach
there, etc.

For example, you might want green and gold team to wait for your signal
("Alpha, go!") before they clear a particular room.

- Want one team to throw a smoke and the other to throw a flashbang before
  doing storming the room? Done.
- Locked door? No problem, tell them to breach it first.
- Hostages? Throw some tear gas in. Don't worry, you can outfit your guys with
  gas masks.

There is a ton of ways to complete missions. You can take control of a team as
well, and co-ordinate with the other teams in clearing a level.

AI sometimes spotty. On occasions the AI will get stuck bumping into one
another, or they'll be looking in stupid directions while taking fire. Most of
the time though the AI is quite capable. You'll see your teams moving in
formation, covering for one another. They'll strafe into rooms. I've actually
been saved by my AI companion more times than I can count, so they're certainly
not a burden.

There is auto-aim, but you can turn it off. You can also configure how
sensitive you want the auto-aim to be.

There is a lot of trial and error. Your plans will not work on the first try.
You'll be going through the level halfway when one of your teams starts getting
killed off. Then you'll go back to the planning stage and try to rectify the
flaws in your master plan. Maybe green team should throw a smoke before
storming this particular room. Maybe you should reposition gold team so that
they can better cover fire for green team. This is as much a strategy game as
it is an action one.

Another this is that death is permanent. You have a roster of soldiers, and if
they die during a mission, they will not be available for subsequent missions.
This gives you an incentive to complete missions with minimum casualties.
Soldiers can be wounded too, making them move slower and have slower reflexes.
Wounded soldiers recover after a couple missions.

This game is fantastic, but it's not for everyone. It can't really be compared
to anything else on the market. Unfortunately the Rainbow Six series is no
longer the tactical shooter it once was. 
