---
title: Spelunky 2
---

A worthy sequel to the original Spelunky.

The game is more difficult than the original. The levels are larger and more
complex. There are new mobs, while some old ones have new behaviors. These
changes generally give the game a slower pace. The original Spelunky had
simpler levels, with enemies that weren't very threatening; meaning that a
sufficiently skilled player could essentially run through the game without
getting into much danger. I enjoy the slower and more methodical playstyle, so
I think this is a large improvement over the first game. Spelunky veterans
who've developed an opposing playstyle preference may feel very differently.
New players will likely find the opening levels too difficult for the first few
hours.

Spelunky is full of secrets. [Derek Yu made a comment in an
interview](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-yZtOL7cFCY&t=1596s) (26:36) on how
gamers these days have a tendency to fixate on "beating the game". He mentioned
that he designed Spelunky to be about exploration and discovery. Thinking to
yourself - What happens if I do this, or do that, or how does this work, or how
might I access this new area, and so on.  I'm inclined to agree with this
philosophy; I think a large part of why I'm enjoying Spelunky 2 so much is
because everything is new and I'm trying to figure out what things do or how to
do certain things. So far I've managed to avoid major spoilers and am just
enjoying the personal discovery process. If you get the game wanting to "beat
it", I think Spelunky 2 (and Spelunky in general) is not going to be for you.

This is a rather contentious game, and certainly not for everyone. I'd highly
recommend it to anyone who has played and enjoyed the original Spelunky. I only
weakly recommend it to new players; I think many people will be put off by the
permadeath and lack of permanent upgrades common in other roguelites (e.g.
Rogue Legacy, Hades, Dead Cells, etc.).
